# gpperfmon

gpperfmon tracks a variety of queries, statistics, system properties, and metrics.

Find more information about the architecture on [the wiki page](https://github.com/greenplum-db/gpdb/wiki/Gpperfmon-Overview)

## Libraries Required

### libsigar:
	https://github.com/hyperic/sigar
	For CentOS 6:
		yum install sigar-devel
	For macOS and CentOS 7 (and others):
	    Use this updated fork: https://github.com/boundary/sigar
		to build:
	    `mkdir build && cd build && cmake .. && make && make install`

## Troubleshooting
	For macOS:
		You may hit a reverse look up issue when viewing the logs of gpperfmon by default $MASTER_DATA_DIRECTORY/gpperfmon/logs
```
	2017-04-11 14:59:56.821681
	PDT,"gpmon","gpperfmon",p40501,th-1633193024,"::1","54006",2017-04-11 14:59:56
	PDT,0,con5,,seg-1,,,,sx1,"FATAL","28000","no pg_hba.conf entry for host
	""::1"", user ""gpmon"", database ""gpperfmon""",,,,,,,0,,"auth.c",608, ```
```
	And also issues at $MASTER_DATA_DIRECTORY/pg_log:
```
		Performance Monitor - failed to connect to gpperfmon database: could not connect to server: No such file or directory
	Is the server running locally and accepting
	connections on Unix domain socket ""/var/pgsql_socket/.s.PGSQL.15432""?",,,,,,,,"SysLoggerMain","syslogger.c",618,
```
		to get pass this you need to do 2 things:
			1) export PGHOST=foo  # where 'foo' is your hostname that is NOT localhost
			2) sudo /etc/hosts   # and separate out (re)definitions of 127.0.0.1, something like:
				127.0.0.1	foo
				127.0.0.1	localhost
## Design
### QueryId
	QueryId is composed of tmid int32, sessionid int32 and ccnt int32 (gp_command_count) in the following format
	`tmid-sessionid-ccnt`
	sessionid and ccnt is from query, but tmid is generated by gpperfmon. It is actually the perfmon start time.
	So when the perfmon or database restarted, even if the sessionid and ccnt can be repetitive, due to the different
	tmid, the queryid is unique.
	Now the tmid is generated by gpmmon because there is only one gpmmon in the whole cluster, gpmon and gpsmon
	both have multiple nodes. This can gurantee the tmid is unique.
	However, gpmon who produces the query info needs the queryid, but it cannot get the tmid from gpmmon. As in the
	current cluster, the sessionid and ccnt can be the unique identification of a query, tmid is not necessary. So
	in gpmon, we just set the tmid to 0. And when gpmmon receives the query, then it resets the tmid.
	gpmon writes the query file named with `q0(tmid)-sessionid-ccnt`, when the cluster restarted, the old
	files will be rewriten by the new files. That doesn't matter, as we don't care the old files after the cluster
	restarted.
